Brad Schnitzer: One.
Brad Schnitzer: Let's just quickly go around to the teams and mention one of of the 3 individuals you've identified.
Brad Schnitzer: And that's to put it out into the ether for myself, for people in this room. Also, let's just like as a program team formalize. The 3. I know some of you guys sent a few my way, which was awesome. But
Brad Schnitzer: we'll we'll do that. I'll quickly do the exercise about the magic link. I still haven't came up a good term for it. But I'll show you how to do that.
Brad Schnitzer: And then we'll jump into Kpis. I know you guys
Brad Schnitzer: started doing a little bit with Kpis. So I won't go that deep, and I'll just leave more time for QA. So we can kind of make it more specific to this group. But yeah, I would love to hear what you guys put down. And hopefully, you guys found that exercise helpful it. It can help open up some ideas on folks and and start thinking about people and relationships as leverage and levers that you'll learn a lot more about
Brad Schnitzer: with financial modeling. So anyone want to kick it off.
George H: Yeah, I'll call on people, Brad, and just so, you know, we really didn't go that deep into Kpi. So it's really we're really coming in here fresh so you can feel free to start from the top cool. Did you? How many did you get of people who reached out to you? Did you get a lot.
Brad Schnitzer: Maybe 2 or 3 groups.
George H: Send me an email.
George H: Okay, okay, who wants to share? Okay? Yeah. So one person, so I'm looking for operations, legal and data decision makers at Vc. Funds and accelerators. And one person I identified was April Roth at a 16 Z. In recent. She does their legal compliance.
George H: Thanks, Peter.
George H: Yeah. Go ahead again.
George H: Developers like balls, products or feedback. So it's really important to connect with them, to maybe get the whole of the community.
Brad Schnitzer: Is this again.
George H: There's a lot of 1,000.
George H: So and like, their game is right now, they're like they're the top 20. Most like concurrent gamers online. So
George H: I on their discord channel as well like they have like 500 messages for every 5 min later.
George H: That sounds very high impact.
George H: Yeah. So I chose us, Sarah nassary. She's a CEO. So also kind of it's a startup, but maybe a bit more mature. So there anyone's health also using menstrual blood for a diagnostic. And like their medical device pad is basically what they have so
George H: potential research, collaboration and partnership.
George H: Did you hear that Fred.
Brad Schnitzer: Yup! Yup! I can hear it. It's it's faint, but I can. I can hear him.
George H: Yeah, from tutor me back. You guys have to like, really speak up because the mic is up here with George. Right here, go ahead. This is a more shot one. But we said, head of strategic partnerships at Airpnd. So that's Richard. Yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: That's great!
George H: You'd be a surprise, but where I can get. See?
George H: I'm sorry I gave you like a really
George H: George Noek for a long time trying to connect with us Tristan Harris.
George H: the civic main technology, the founding.
George H: Sorry. Don't get him.
George H: I can help you with that one. I I can help you with that.
Brad Schnitzer: See, that's what we're looking for. There we go.
George H: Okay. Last.
Brad Schnitzer: It. It always happens in in every session where someone in the room once you put that out into the ether. Someone in the room can kind of jump in. So that's awesome.
George H: As I said, post your poster 3 on the cohort sport, so you can help.
George H: Yes, so hey, Brad? William? Here from Agent Luna, and so our top one is a lady by the name Michelle Mckay. She heads up Cushman Wakefield globally, so it's again a bit of a moonshot one, you know, a few folks in there, but more junior levels. And why we're really impressed is she's got a really deep understanding of
George H: investment and banking. She she's been around for a long time in the investment space, but also, importantly, she's open to innovation and tech, so that partnered with before. So we thought she would be interested in chatting with us.
Brad Schnitzer: Absolutely. That's 1 i can help with. So follow up we work closely with Cushman and Wakefield works with the city of Chicago, and they're on the board of World business, Chicago.
Brad Schnitzer: So one of their in those big real estate firms their titles are always really inflated, but they. They work with the the
Brad Schnitzer: Highest up in the Chicagoland area, so we can at least get you to that. That individual.
George H: So we call them Brad's Buddies. Brad has a buddy everywhere, but it it's not just to get Brad to give you the interest. This is an exercise that you are able to build your network. You're putting this out there. You're trying to get those warm intros, and he'll teach you the magic right now. That's how you can figure out who's connected to some of these people. And you just send easy link, Brad, you told me to remind you also to give some of the tips and tricks from John Hill, since they won't be meeting him. If you want to take 5 min.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, yeah, I'll do that right after the magic link. I'll just. I'll take them into one specific tool that he built while he was at Linkedin.
Brad Schnitzer: How many more do we have.
George H: That that? Okay, we wanna do one more.
George H: I'm from
George H: think for us, like the most useful connection would be. And I've had a product of the
George H: or someone see.
Brad Schnitzer: Sea level. At Github
Brad Schnitzer: we definitely have connections within our network to github.
Brad Schnitzer: we have one person from techstar specific. Oh, here we go
Brad Schnitzer: cool.
Brad Schnitzer: So Greg Cochran, who is a long time tech stars
Brad Schnitzer: employee. Now runs the Github accelerator for all of Github, so I'll post it and then the the program team can send you his linkedin. But easy, easy connection in there.
George H: So it'll be in the chat of the recording.
George H: Thank you, Brad, and we also have reps there. So like, I just ran a panel for them at their headquarters. I can give you that guy's email, too.
Brad Schnitzer: Great. Well.
Brad Schnitzer: well, I will start with the magic link, and then I'll finish with
Brad Schnitzer: the Greg Hill.
Brad Schnitzer: or sorry.
Brad Schnitzer: let me give me one second. Let's see.
George H: Perfect.
Brad Schnitzer: The screen.
George H: Yeah, it's perfect.
Brad Schnitzer: You can see it cool.
Brad Schnitzer: All right. Well, let's let's make this real why don't we focus? Does anyone want to be an example for this exercise.
Brad Schnitzer: Any companies want to find somebody.
George H: Raise their hand. Do you remember cogni soap, Brad? Do you want a 1 line.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah. a 1 liner would be perfect.
George H: That's the gaming one mystery. You want to try out a 1 lining. We are developing psychology based AI to analyze gaming communities.
Brad Schnitzer: Great. So who? Who again, you know, I think this exercise leads into this magic link demonstration is, who are the most important people for you right now to connect with.
George H: like signatures to check out
George H: live service games, product managers.
Brad Schnitzer: Okay, product managers. And okay, so if you guys this is hair terrible ux ui here. But this is the one part that might not be as obvious is you're gonna want to go into the search bar and just hit enter to get in there. It's not as obvious as other things. But it's just the easiest way to get into this. This part of Linkedin. Next thing you're gonna do is go into people
Brad Schnitzer: you may have done this many times, but I'll I'll show you what makes it a little bit different. So give me a few companies that they might work at these product managers.
George H: Well, is it, Val?
Brad Schnitzer: VAL. Can you spell? What is this.
George H: BALB, EE, what's the
George H: with a V to start.
Brad Schnitzer: Bell.
George H: A balance. Yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: Okay, computer games.
George H: Yeah. Yeah.
George H: Cool.
Brad Schnitzer: Maybe one or 2 more.
George H: Blizzard, blizzard activism, blizzard.
Brad Schnitzer: Desert, oh, cool.
George H: Yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: It is the is it the top one.
George H: Oh, the second one! Brad.
Brad Schnitzer: Second one. Okay? Oh, and they're okay. So we'll we'll start with those 2. We'll put it on 1st degree connections.
Brad Schnitzer: current company. Did it lose it when I just did that?
Brad Schnitzer: let's see if it just lost it. So Blizzard and Val.
Brad Schnitzer: all right. So, oddly enough, I have one connection at these 2 companies who's a 1st degree connection? Looks like it's a talent leader.
Brad Schnitzer: But what you want to do here is, go into all filters.
Brad Schnitzer: and you're going to also add, under title
Brad Schnitzer: product manager, which I won't have any. But that's not important for this exercise. So the the key with this right here, like, you guys may have gotten to this step. But what most people don't realize is this, URL is now a link that you can send out. I suggest hyperlinking it and just making it, you know, a 1 letter here, or one word
Brad Schnitzer: you know, hyperlink within your email. But you can send this out to your whole network and say, Hey.
Brad Schnitzer: do you guys have anybody that pops up when you click on this link. Do you have any? And and you could set it to 1st or second degree connections, most likely 1st degree connections. But you guys, what we talked about yesterday was putting together.
Brad Schnitzer: Your top 100 companies, if you're b 2 b, and if you're B to C, that likely might be top 100 Channel partners. Top 100 folks with the the megaphone in front of your community and getting them into one of these magic links so that you can just share this one link out, have everybody cross, check their entire network?
Brad Schnitzer: I would have had no idea. If you just asked me if you came up to me and asked me if I knew anyone that worked at activision or valve.
Brad Schnitzer: I couldn't say that off the top of my head right like we may have crossed paths. They may have switched jobs, careers but with that link
Brad Schnitzer: one person was able to be found right for me. So this is like.
Brad Schnitzer: I guess if if you take anything from from, I guess yesterday's session, and then the 1st half of the session like that is super super valuable.
Brad Schnitzer: Right.
George H: Can you hear us in a second, like a second.
Brad Schnitzer: Second degree.
George H: Yeah, I just want to see what it looks like. Oh, wow.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: So
Brad Schnitzer: what we talked about yesterday is a lot of jobs actually come through second degree connections. Right? So if you really can't find any 1st degree connections like there's something to be said here like, look at this second degree. Connection is product manager of call of duty so pretty cool. And then the other thing is like, this is somebody who's a manager at activision, who's also
Brad Schnitzer: from Chicago Booth. So that's that will lead into the next demonstration I'll do. Is the value of your school network which John Hill.
George H: I can jump so the Chicago Booth Nba. That he sees there from Alec
George H: Brad is at Booth, so Brad knows how to get in touch with this guy, even though he's only a second degree connected.
George H: So just wanted to point that out.
Brad Schnitzer: And he'll he'll respond to me. We're in, you know, like, because he's at Booth. I have access to him through like a slack group, so I can ping him in a slack group, and I have almost
Brad Schnitzer: like any. Ask I always. I
Brad Schnitzer: almost always see people follow through on that, especially through these closed networks. It's similar to being part of the tech stars network. Now, now that you guys will be in techstars, universe.
Brad Schnitzer: very rarely do you put an ask out to another founder, and they just completely ignore you especially if you go about it the right way, like they're most likely going to help you in in some capacity. So this is a super powerful exercise and to Neil's point, if you guys
Brad Schnitzer: want to put 1st and secondary connections. You're going to get a lot more on these lists and and people
Brad Schnitzer: and simply what you're asking. We talked a little bit about the Alex Iskold interview or portable message that you can send out.
Brad Schnitzer: You know, you're gonna try to get one of these folks to to help make that introduction. So they're going to be the ones passing along that portable.
Brad Schnitzer: but and the other thing is
Brad Schnitzer: you know. Likely if if they have a strong connection into some of these places, and and can ask these folks
Brad Schnitzer: you know, it's it's really going to be to your benefit. So that's the 1st demonstration. I'll run through any questions on that, because I think the the thing that typically gets lost is
Brad Schnitzer: when you see no connections here. It's it's about copying this hyperlink at the top. You're copying the URL and turning it into a hyperlink to share out to your network.
George H: Yeah, Brad, I'll send out your formal loom that you did for us. So everyone have to get it this 1st time. This is just to introduce you. You can follow along on his loom separately, like outside of this session.
Brad Schnitzer: Cool. Let's do the other one real quick. Does anyone else want to just share out like a university their their University that they went to.
George H: On the matter. 1, st one
George H: University College, London University College of London.
George H: or College, London. Is there another college, London University College, London.
Brad Schnitzer: No logo, let's say, is that the right one.
George H: Yeah, maybe it's yeah, yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: Ucl.
George H: Yeah, that.
George H: One of the.
Brad Schnitzer: Oh, they're right here.
Brad Schnitzer: This one
Brad Schnitzer: cool.
Brad Schnitzer: So what you're going to want to do is go to this page. Ucl.
Brad Schnitzer: click under alumni.
Brad Schnitzer: What's hilarious cause. John Hill, who was on our team, worked on this product
Brad Schnitzer: very, very, very, very few users like under 1% of users, actually use this feature, which is crazy because it's insanely helpful. So what? What's your business? Again?
George H: Can I explain, like the affinity groups, and why this is like useful, like, why we would want to do this.
George H: Yeah, like what John.
Brad Schnitzer: So, yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: so we talked about second degree connections and and how powerful they can be. And a lot of jobs are found through second degree connections Linkedin did a survey of
Brad Schnitzer: affinity networks, and which were the most powerful and universities. You know, he, typically John Hill will come into a program and say, Hey, if somebody from your university reached out to you they were doing something in early stage startups, and they asked you for a 15 min call, or for some help, how many of you would would answer that call and and help?
Brad Schnitzer: Typically. And I'm assuming the group, this group is no different that most people raise their hand right? It's a really powerful affinity network. So these folks, these 260,000 alumni
Brad Schnitzer: are like a superpower for you and your business. They
Brad Schnitzer: over. Most people will respond and actually help you with with what you need support with so for this exercise. You can see right here in this 260,000 alumni. You can see where these folks work right now. You can see where they're currently located. And then you know the types of roles and and what skills they have and then again their degrees. But I'd be curious real quickly.
Brad Schnitzer: What?
Brad Schnitzer: Your company does! And then
Brad Schnitzer: who you're looking to connect with.
George H: Lab Brad.
George H: the Collab team. So the hospitality team.
Brad Schnitzer: Same team hospitality team. Okay? So we're still looking for product managers. What are we looking for? Again?
George H: This is this is Collab. They're doing like the Airbnb hospitality. Remember.
George H: you wouldn't do it. Yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: This is B to C.
George H: No. B, 2 B. It's the AI digital concierge for short term rentals.
Brad Schnitzer: So do you know the title? Is it a pretty esoteric title, like What is what is the title or the type of company like a a property manager.
George H: Yeah, property manager operations, directors.
George H: all sorts, owners as well. Companies.
Brad Schnitzer: Owners of companies. I mean, just property manager. You have a thousand alumni that you can kind of work through, and then you can kinda look through. If you know, 475 are in London. 65 are based here in the United States. So just from college of London property managers in the Us. We're down to 66 people and if they're not the person you're trying to sell into like these are the perfect people to ask
Brad Schnitzer: for introductions, asking simply, Can you pass this affordable? Along goes a long way and a lot of again, like I talked about yesterday. You feel like, Oh, I don't really know this person like I can't make that ask to see, you know, if they'd be able to pass affordable. Usually that person, the recipient on the other end is never like, Hey.
Brad Schnitzer: you know. Catherine, like, How well do you really know this person? It's really like, hey, you know, they're a part of their network. And you know, they made the introduction. And and hopefully, Catherine has a good relationship with that end person where you know, they're just willing to take that introduction. So that's another thing that that most companies don't use. Also, you're gonna learn a ton of shit in the next, like 2 weeks. You're gonna learn a lot over the next 13 weeks.
Brad Schnitzer: Write these down because, you know, I think they're going to get lost in just all the information overload that you get. These are some really, really to me, high leverage things that you guys could be doing right now. So I just wanted to share those with you before we got started on Kpis. Any questions. Before I shut this down.
George H: Really helpful, Brad. Thank you so much. I think. The another thing John Hill says is like, there's a there's a survey. I think that's what you were saying about
George H: The survey they sent out, but they sent another one where it's like, what affinity groups do people care the most about. And they actually care about their university, their sorority, their fraternities, their religious groups, anything outside of work, a lot more than work. So they are willing to help someone from their college
George H: at their company, and like they're like less cagey about their company, because to them the universities. But they have more affinity toward helping. So yeah, I'll send this email to someone from my company, because I don't have much loyalty there. I care that I am a like northwestern wildcat, or whatever you are. So that's from data which is really cool.
Brad Schnitzer: The other the other last hack. If for those taking notes that that's worked well for me. When trying to like infiltrate organization is, if I'm having trouble connecting into an organization
Brad Schnitzer: what you can do on Linkedin. And if you guys need a tutorial on this later, or you know I can put a loom together, but you can look at former employees right? And you can kind of search through people who have worked there for a long time, usually, and think about yourselves. If you've worked at a large organization or really any organization, is, you probably still have really good friends. That work at that organization and people that you'd be comfortable making intros to. So
Brad Schnitzer: most people don't think about that when they're trying to connect into an organization, it's really just like, Who's there now?
Brad Schnitzer: Somebody that may have just left could also be a really good
Brad Schnitzer: connection. Granted, they left on good terms.
Brad Schnitzer: cool.
George H: So remember all of it
George H: that is in the Kpis reporting. When you guys go and look for this. This is the Kpi session.
George H: Cool. Thanks, Fred.
George H: I think.
Brad Schnitzer: Alright! Does everyone have a place to take notes, I guess, is my ask here.
George H: We have thumbs up.
Brad Schnitzer: Cool, alright
Brad Schnitzer: good for me. Let's see.
Brad Schnitzer: You guys see this all right.
Brad Schnitzer: Cool
Brad Schnitzer: all right.
Brad Schnitzer: Day. 2. Who am I?
Brad Schnitzer: So like? I said. I've been here at Techstars for just over about 7 years. This is Neil and I. You know.
Brad Schnitzer: I want to say 40 years into the future. But that might be like 2030 years into the future, Neil. But no, I'm i i want to be here for life at tech stars like this is the place this is really like, you know, I I'm
Brad Schnitzer: I have drank the Kool aid of tech stars. I I really believe in helping founders succeed, and I haven't found a place better than tech stars to do that. It really is a community and I love working with you guys and I want to continue to support
Brad Schnitzer: the world changes really, really quick. So my ask for you guys is to continue to be curious, continue to learn, help one another be part of this community. What's what's going to be really cool is in like 20 to 30 years when you still have these connections. I don't know if Neil
Brad Schnitzer: brought it up to you guys, but our 1st class at Techso, Chicago, in 2,013 still meets on a weekly basis, or sorry they were meeting on a weekly basis. It's now, you know, 11 years. They they meet on a monthly basis, and and if things get crazy a quarterly basis, but they're still super connected. They have a company from that class that became, you know, a 3 billion dollar Market Cap Company
Brad Schnitzer: and have has raised very little capital. So they're actually paying out dividends. But what's cool is they let the rest of the class take a part of the upside So
Brad Schnitzer: there are multiple millionaires in that class, mainly because one of those companies was able to. Let the other companies.
Brad Schnitzer: you know, join in that ride with them and they've jumped ship companies, you know, when one company doesn't make it.
Brad Schnitzer: you know they spent enough time with one another that you know they were able to identify great talent and bring them onto the team. So we've seen that so many times. Whether it's it's founders helping one another. I know in these early days. It doesn't feel like you're gonna build lifelong relationships with the people in your class. Just hard to imagine, with only spending a week with them. But you'll see after what you go through in 13 weeks. It's 1 of the the intangibles of this this program. So I hope you guys get to experience that. So
Brad Schnitzer: that's my preamble. Yeah.
George H: He kind of plays through that point you just made. So the company talking about is Trading view. That was Troy's investment. Troy was the managing director of Techstar, Chicago. That, I believe, is on the leaderboard. Maybe most like best return all time techstar so far today.
George H: And then not only that. Imagine 1 billion dollar companies coming out of this class. And where was in here decides, hey? Like, I love you guys like, let's put a round together so you can share in subside of this business. That's what they did with the text art, Chicago class and everybody want.
George H: So that's pretty cool, right?
Brad Schnitzer: I think one of our last classes did that as well. So it it happens all the time. But it's it's it's it's informal. It's things that happen just because you guys get to know each other and want to support one another. So it's cool when those things happen so I love this place, and and I will stay here for a long time, helping supporting founders like you. So let's jump into Kpis. So like, I said, we'll start with the objective here.
Brad Schnitzer: I want you guys to identify your key performance indicators by following your customers journey. That's the piece that might be different. You know, I I think Kpis is something that everyone's like. Oh, I know, Kpis, I've done this a million times. This is the the differentiation. I think that that we kind of take here. Is following your customers journey so that you know what to grow during tech stars. And then, after your time at techstars
Brad Schnitzer: I also have an objective to narrow down to 2 to 3 kpis. I think a lot of founders get into trouble because they select so many kpis and so many things they want to measure. You can measure a ton of things. But being really, really, really
Brad Schnitzer: you know, holding yourself intellectually honest and and coming up with the 2 to 3 thing things that matter most
Brad Schnitzer: that you need to understand track and goal set to drive your progress.
Brad Schnitzer: I also want to convince you that your success will likely depend on how well you manage your Kpis. There are a million fucking things that you guys can do in this program Kpis are gonna fall into that small group of things that likely determines your success. You'll see later, and we'll talk about how these like roll up into a financial model. But
Brad Schnitzer: just anecdotally across the companies I've worked with. The companies that manage their Kpis are typically the most successful companies. I'm sure you guys have all heard what gets measured gets managed
Brad Schnitzer: cool. So what is a key performance indicator?
Brad Schnitzer: Anyone wanna jump in
Brad Schnitzer: done on our
Brad Schnitzer: alright? How about this one? Why do you guys think they matter.
George H: Let's let's make them answer, let's let's give them.
George H: Yeah.
George H: yeah. I mean, rather than defining a Kpi. I guess it. It enables you to make smart decisions as not only a leader of the team, but as a team as well, that you will, going towards that same.
Brad Schnitzer: Like that definition.
Brad Schnitzer: Curious? Yeah, we got someone else. I can't see the hand. So.
George H: Any business.
George H: any business levers that drive value, business.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, I really like that definition I don't know if you've read the book Lovers yet, but I think you soon will, and you'll be talking to one of the the authors of that book. I I think later today. So I love that definition.
Brad Schnitzer: Anyone else.
George H: It's a way to measure progress in your business.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, I like simple, yeah, it is a way to measure progress in your business. It's a way to identify the few things that matter most right now in your business, and the things that you can quantify in your business. Why do they matter?
Brad Schnitzer: Anyone.
George H: Have to know where you are.
Brad Schnitzer: Absolutely.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah. You can't know where you're going if you don't know where you are.
Brad Schnitzer: So.
George H: A.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, someone else has something.
George H: They help you like not lose track of stuff when they are amazing and something else. So they're very important. Monitor your progress. And
George H: now, hopefully.
Brad Schnitzer: Absolutely
Brad Schnitzer: alright. So I just kind of alluded to it previously. But you're going to use your financial model to help create your kpis and vice versa. Right? They're going to interact with one another. You know, I think when you, when you go into this modeling session later, it's going to feel overwhelming if you haven't done it before. If you don't have a finance background or you've never built a financial model.
Brad Schnitzer: Every year I see companies get overwhelmed with their model.
Brad Schnitzer: think about your Kpis as some of the most basic forms of your model, and and you can start with a a napkin and a pen and start thinking about exactly what you're trying to drive forward, and that will help dictate, you know, moving forward what you're gonna actually include in your financial model. But they're gonna work in in interchangeably with one another.
Brad Schnitzer: The next thing you're going to do is, you're going to use your weekly Kpis to create your investor updates.
Brad Schnitzer: So I know you guys are gonna have likely a full session. If you haven't done so yet on investor updates the most. The the guts of your investor updates surround is typically surrounded by your kpis. Right? Like, if I'm an investor. If I'm somebody who's potentially interested in your business, the the main thing I want to see in your weekly investor Updates. And then eventually, you know, monthly and quarterly is
Brad Schnitzer: your kpis.
Brad Schnitzer: What are you measuring? What are you driving forward in your business? And how's that actually going?
Brad Schnitzer: So I put this in here. You guys will get this reminder. A ton of times is sending investor updates to
Brad Schnitzer: updates at Texterscom. And then again, I think you guys still call it killer updates talk. But you know, get ready for that one.
Brad Schnitzer: I. I
Brad Schnitzer: had some hyperbole around this being one of the most important thing is Kpis, investor updates falls in that. That small group, too. Using your your investor updates to help
Brad Schnitzer: steer the conversation. It's an excuse to continue reaching out to investors and showing them your progress. I always tell founders and you guys may have heard it
Brad Schnitzer: from other investors as well is we invest in lines, not dots and dots are a single moment in time. Lines are at space between 2 dots. And what allows me? You know, the ability to find those lines is by having founders who send me regular updates, and I can watch their kpis and how they actually do from time to time.
Brad Schnitzer: I think a lot of people think investors are in the risk business and they're just seeking risk.
Brad Schnitzer: Most of them are in the risk mitigation business right? And
Brad Schnitzer: put yourself on the other side of the table. I don't know if anyone here was on the venture side. But if you're at the other side of the table.
Brad Schnitzer: what's what's a better place to be from a, you know, in, you know, evaluating a founder from a risk mitigation perspective.
Brad Schnitzer: When you can see their kpis each week, you can see they hit their kpis each week, and when they miss their kpis they understand why they miss their kpis, and they have a hypothesis of
Brad Schnitzer: you know how they're going to do it the next week, and they can actually be open, honest, vulnerable. And they can also make asks to the group whether that's a group of mentors, investors, they can say, Hey, we missed our Kpis this week.
Brad Schnitzer: Who can help us? Who has, you know, an idea, an assumption on on? Why, we missed our Kpis, we're all ears. We're coachable. We want to test these assumptions.
Brad Schnitzer: So definitely, definitely, definitely definitely incorporate your Kpis into your updates.
Brad Schnitzer: Okay, so anyone who's learned Kpis in the past. There's so much there's semantics about different. You know names of what we want to call these things. I guess I want you guys to think about this. You know, in a pyramid structure, and we're gonna talk 1st about primary metrics which are your north star and your core metrics? Right? So this could be revenue. There's some other revenue
Brad Schnitzer: metrics like use usage and engagement. There, you know, for advertising and social companies, you know. That might be your North Star metric
Brad Schnitzer: daily active users, weekly active users, monthly active users for B, 2 B companies that could be signed contracts that could be paid pilots
Brad Schnitzer: it also, we'll talk about a little bit later. It could be retention metrics.
Brad Schnitzer: There's people that also use capital efficiency, which is like a burn multiple.
Brad Schnitzer: I wouldn't focus on that one just yet. But as you guys get a little bit further that that is a good primary metric.
Brad Schnitzer: And then product development North Star metrics which we'll talk about briefly. But those are technical product accomplishments. Right? We'll talk about how to measure those, because I I can. Sometimes I've seen founders struggle with product metrics. For their kpis. But I want you guys to think about
Brad Schnitzer: the primary metric. Is that top of the pyramid that's your core, north Star.
Brad Schnitzer: Kpi.
Brad Schnitzer: So the 1st thing to know is, it's really hard to move those primary metrics right? When when you are running a business. Let's say our our property manager business our our short term rental business, you know. If your primary metric is revenue, it's not abundantly clear right away how you're just gonna move revenue right? So how do you actually increase revenue? So for each of your kpis like I said, you're going to have 2 to 3 Kpis.
Brad Schnitzer: When I say you're going to have 2 to 3 kpis. That means you're going to have 2 to 3 primary metrics, 2 to 3 North Star core metrics.
Brad Schnitzer: You're going to have that one primary metric. And then what you're going to have nested under it like a pyramid is 2 to 3 secondary metrics. These are supporting metrics
Brad Schnitzer: that lead up into your primary metric. Right? So if your primary, we'll talk about examples. But think about, I think, revenue for most of you depending on where you are with your business revenue is likely revenue net. New revenue is likely going to be a primary metric for you. You're gonna have 2 to 3 supporting metrics or secondary metrics nested under that primary.
Brad Schnitzer: this is the key point.
Brad Schnitzer: These 2 to 3 secondary metrics supporting metrics are the metrics you're trying to optimize each week of the program.
Brad Schnitzer: So I'm wearing my wreakly shirt plan this today, I I think I spoke about them yesterday and ways they were able to create the flywheel early with their business their primary metric was net new revenue, and that revolved around getting new customers in their business.
Brad Schnitzer: let me kind of paint the picture of of reply and what they did.
Brad Schnitzer: what they're still doing? So reply,
Brad Schnitzer: as a circular economy business. Their goal was to help organizations, big organizations. One of their customers is Google.
Brad Schnitzer: So help organizations like Google
Brad Schnitzer: divert their assets from going into the landfill. For many companies. It's really easy. It's much easier to just throw things away than to figure out how to actually utilize those assets. So in a big organization like Google, who knows? I am curious. If anyone in the room knows how many employees they have.
Brad Schnitzer: What's what's the guess.
George H: Fantastic.
Brad Schnitzer: 100,000 cool. That's better guess than I would have. So if they have a hundred 1,000 people, and we could even focus on. You know their their bay area staff, you know. Let's just say they even have 50,000 people locally. Maybe they have a hundred 1,000 people locally you know, traditionally, in a business you would have a desk, you would have an old monitor.
Brad Schnitzer: and no one would know what to do with it. There was no internal ebay, you know, for lack of a better term within the organization where you can figure out if other people within your own organization
Brad Schnitzer: may need a monitor. Maybe they need it for home. Maybe they need it for work use. Maybe they their desk. They don't like their desk. Maybe they want a standing desk.
Brad Schnitzer: You really don't know until you have a system. In this case, reply, where you can utilize those assets and companies like Google can measure that and show their impact things. Their, you know their impact in the circular economy, avoiding, sending, you know, assets to the the landfill
Brad Schnitzer: and then ultimately, if no one in the organization is interested. There's a secondary market where you can give things for free to local universities, religious institutions, elementary schools. So they were able to. We've seen on their platform big New York City law firms getting rid of all their
Brad Schnitzer: Herman Miller chairs. And they just are get upgrading and getting all new chairs. They're just gonna throw them away. And they were able to send them to a local New York public school. So making new life of these assets? So
Brad Schnitzer: hopefully that paints the picture as I go through this example, so net new revenue was super important for them. What do they measure each week
Brad Schnitzer: when they were in program? New leads identified. You know. The team went through and figured out what actually qualifies as a new lead. You have to be again intellectually honest with yourselves
Brad Schnitzer: these need to be real leads that can convert to real business. So I've seen companies, you know, create
Brad Schnitzer: activities like this just to meet the exercise like
Brad Schnitzer: you, you should be able to to put yourself up to audit to one of your own classmates, to your managing director. I want you guys as a group, you know, it's going to take time throughout the program. But I want you guys to hold yourselves account. Hold one another accountable.
Brad Schnitzer: So if you you have a sense, somebody, you know, in your group, you're they're just throwing up metrics, and they're really not being intellectually honest with themselves, challenge one another. And and I think that builds a real relationship over time. Obviously, I think you know, yesterday I talked about find somebody that can push you like.
Brad Schnitzer: Learn your Cl. Learn how your classmates like to be pushed and challenged. But over time, as you build those relationships definitely
Brad Schnitzer: call each other out and and try to dig a little bit deeper and make sure. You know they these are real metrics that are moving in the right direction. The next thing was 1st call schedule. So
Brad Schnitzer: for b 2 b companies, and and also B to C companies, you want to think about your actual pipeline? What over time? Companies like reply know that if they get on a 1st call
Brad Schnitzer: with with a client. You know, they may have a 60% chance of closing that deal right? I'm making up these numbers. Maybe they have a 30% chance of closing those deals. It's just math over time. And you're gonna get closer and closer to understanding what that map looks like. You're gonna know you're gonna need. You're gonna learn over time. You know, we talked about yesterday of working backwards from your goal. You're gonna learn over time how many people you need to identify each week if you want to make your goals
Brad Schnitzer: based on conversion through the funnel and then, you know, I think for we could talk about secondary metrics like, let's say they could also have one of new demos with customers. So maybe a company like reply knows if they get a customer on a call
Brad Schnitzer: and they do a demo, they're converting 70% of the time, right? So they're really trying to optimize to get customers into seeing the product using the product playing with the product.
Brad Schnitzer: So just think about that in your business. We'll talk about a little bit more on how you're going to actually pick out those steps.
Brad Schnitzer: The other thing I wanted to put in here is like a retention metric. So reply, you know, had early churn in their business. And so a primary metric for them was retention revenue, and that's existing customers.
Brad Schnitzer: in their business. What they identified was.
Brad Schnitzer: there was a sticking point in the business where, no one wanted to be the person to actually catalog all these assets right like, if you have 200 chairs. Obviously, if they're the same chair, you just take one picture and one, you know, identification of that chair. But no one wanted to be the person to actually list all these items up on the site. So for them
Brad Schnitzer: one of their metrics for retention was actually number of assets that were listed on the site. So
Brad Schnitzer: They got to step back and figure out, how do they make that easier for their customers
Brad Schnitzer: in the early days. That meant people on their team actually going out and doing the hard work and taking pictures of assets for companies and uploading them onto the site.
Brad Schnitzer: And it was kind of a empty room problem chicken or the egg problem where once there were enough assets on the site. People started using it, and once people started using it, people added their assets to the site. So again they had to get that flywheel spinning individually within each ecosystem, but they were able to identify that and say, Hey.
Brad Schnitzer: you know, we're we're losing a lot of customers because they're not uploading
Brad Schnitzer: assets onto the site.
Brad Schnitzer: Let's do that for them. Let's make it easier for them to do that. And that increased ultimately increased their retention revenue
Brad Schnitzer: any questions about primary and secondary metrics before we get past this. Because, if you're taking notes, this is super super important.
George H: I have another question. Again, we discussed previously about internal and journal.
George H: Apis, so do monitoring metrics identify with external and secondary identify with internal, or
George H: they can be both.
Brad Schnitzer: Can you?
Brad Schnitzer: So you're sorry. I'm having a hard time hearing you, but I think I heard like, are these internal or external metrics.
George H: Yeah, exactly like in in terms of the effort of the team. Like how many calls they schedule, how many weeks they identify while external is like defined by the outcomes of their actions. Yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: I have a whole slide on this later. If you want to hold tight, so we'll we'll cover that exactly.
Brad Schnitzer: Great question, though.
Brad Schnitzer: Okay, this is and of one, my my opinion here. But I think sometimes it's helpful to have. This is.
Brad Schnitzer: I don't want you guys to be creative with your primary kpis at this early in the game. So stick to one of the prime 4 primary kpis you'll get
Brad Schnitzer: You'll get the slide, or you'll get
Brad Schnitzer: a a sheet where we'll we'll lay out some 4 primary kpis that most companies use
Brad Schnitzer: should be. Let's see if I I have them.
Brad Schnitzer: I I'll send you guys what these 4 primary kpis are supposed to be in the slide deck, so I will. We'll check on that. But you're going to stick to just basic primary kpis.
Brad Schnitzer: The reason why you don't want to be creative with your Kpis early on is Kpis will be how you're measured versus similar companies. So if you're speaking to an investor that typically invests in your vertical for the most part, those companies are using standard kpis, right? Like this, especially their primary kpis.
Brad Schnitzer: It's gonna make them especially, you know, in the early days. It's gonna be really hard for them to measure you against other companies. If you're using really creative Apis.
Brad Schnitzer: your 2 to 3 secondary kpis is where you can get more specific to your business
Brad Schnitzer: cool. So this is what we're just talking about. Inputs, those are things that you do
Brad Schnitzer: outputs are things that happen as a result result of what you do. So I think that's kind of your question. I guess I want you guys to focus on inputs things that you actively do to drive the business forward.
George H: Brad, can you go back real quick? So I just want to point out that
George H: this like more than half of every class we have whenever we do our 1st Kpi session.
George H: half of them have outputs.
George H: And it's it's all output based as opposed to input based. And it's always like an exercise with the Eir to have to go back and re convert those into inputs. So do that work. Now to save yourself time and make more progress.
Brad Schnitzer: So just to clarify what Neil said. The things that you're measuring week over week are going to be those secondary metrics.
Brad Schnitzer: Those are inputs, things that you do many times the output might be revenue. Right? It happens as a result of what you do.
Brad Schnitzer: focus on inputs for your secondary.
Brad Schnitzer: Apis, the things that you're focusing on week over week.
Brad Schnitzer: All right.
Brad Schnitzer: So leading metrics they help you see into the future. It's like looking out your front window lagging metrics. So again, it's like looking in the past like looking out the back window. You'll see some of these car analogies today with Troy.
Brad Schnitzer: things that take a little bit of time like revenue again. It's not abundantly clear right away how that's created. Right? Your activity with a leading metric is is, you know, if if you're making phone calls, if you're finding specific leads online, those are the leading metrics that can help you over time
Brad Schnitzer: you'll be able to see what it actually creates. Revenue. It's gonna take you a while. It's gonna take you some time to actually figure out
Brad Schnitzer: how that was created.
Brad Schnitzer: So focus on on leading metrics or leading indicators.
Brad Schnitzer: Let's see
Brad Schnitzer: who's who's heard of the term vanity metrics. Is that something you guys are all familiar with.
George H: We went over it last week. That's 1 of the things I did talk about.
Brad Schnitzer: Cool. So I'm gonna I just put a couple of examples in here just to to hammer the point. Daily. Active users versus total sign ups. Right? You know, most investors are are curious to know who's actually using your platform. If you're, you know, consumer based platform or your b 2 b, and and you sell per seats they're at. They're they're curious, like, who's, you know, actually, using this on a daily basis.
Brad Schnitzer: Total sign ups. Likely. Just a vanity metric, you know. You can give me a few examples that that are the contrary. But for the most part, like we're interested in in things that, you know, are not vanity metrics. And the other thing on total sign ups is cumulative metrics. Things that can only go up
Brad Schnitzer: to Neil's earlier point, like we see companies do this every single time. Think about net new with a lot of your metrics each week, right like, if if it's something that is can only go up. You know. Followers on Instagram. Obviously, you know, you can say something polarizing, and it can go down. But for the most part, you know, it's gonna go up over time.
Brad Schnitzer: We're going to try to avoid cumulative metrics, things that can only go up. We care about the Delta. What happens in this this new phase. We're looking at just this this week in time, and what happened during that week in time. So try to avoid vanity metrics. They might not be clear@firstst This is again something I I want you guys to all hold yourselves accountable to if you think somebody in your classes is measuring a vanity metric like.
Brad Schnitzer: ask ask questions. You know. Try to dig deep. Don't just scream out. I think that's a vanity metric, you know. Try to dig, try to understand. But you want to measure things that ultimately drive the business forward. And vanity metrics are are typically, never that
Brad Schnitzer: cool. So this is the the most important part, I think about understanding Kpis from from my perspective is, I want you guys to build a story around your super user right? And this is your hypothesis right now. Unlike.
Brad Schnitzer: you know, the vision in your head of
Brad Schnitzer: you know how your user would use your product.
Brad Schnitzer: You know the person that's that's completely engaged with your product, loving your product, getting the most value out of your product.
Brad Schnitzer: Build a story about and and you know, obviously in your program. You're going to go through jobs to be done and go through the whole customer journey, and you know their struggling moment. But start to when you, when you
Brad Schnitzer: get those stories and you start talking to customers or potential cut customers or people that made you know, decisions, you know, with similar products start to understand that story so that you can build this journey, that that your Kpis are going to be surrounded around.
Brad Schnitzer: So what are the steps to create a core user. You can put it on a piece of paper
Brad Schnitzer: and create it just like a step by step. List 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Just
Brad Schnitzer: what are the steps to actually creating one of these core
Brad Schnitzer: or super users?
Brad Schnitzer: for example. I think I talked a little bit about trawla, and Trala was a violin coaching app.
Brad Schnitzer: Right away. You know, they they realized quickly that people that download the app and record 3 or more videos of themselves playing violin
Brad Schnitzer: were became super users like that was the the step function for them. Were these these
Brad Schnitzer: customers became super users. And they started becoming really, really engaged with the business. So these are the types of things that you're going to identify along your customer journey that
Brad Schnitzer: turn your users just everyday users into super users.
Brad Schnitzer: And when you look at your data, yep.
George H: Sorry. I think I mentioned a magic moment for Facebook. Remember that no worries.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah.
George H: I remember what it was
George H: connections when you.
Brad Schnitzer: Added, yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: How many friends?
George H: Morning.
Brad Schnitzer: 20 when once you got to 20 friends
Brad Schnitzer: that was, they became a super user. Right they were. They were hooked.
Brad Schnitzer: They're going to continue to come back and use your product. So that was something. Yeah, Facebook identified. You guys want to do that same thing in your business right. You know, I think nutrisense this company early on had a super super leaky bucket.
Brad Schnitzer: right people thought their product was super cool. They bought it right away, but they didn't. They didn't keep them right.
Brad Schnitzer: I'm using the product right now.
Brad Schnitzer: So you know it's it's I don't. I have to talk to the founders we we connect on a regular basis. But I'm starting to log my meals every time I eat I'm creating a behavior. And I'm sure when I talk to the founders, they're gonna say, Hey, you know the somebody who goes through for a full week logging their meals into our platform is somebody who's creating that pattern, that behavior. And they're going to continue to stay on and become super user. Right? So I can. I can see it happening to me.
Brad Schnitzer: You guys are gonna have to look at the data and see those early indicators that turn customers into these core or super users.
George H: Felipe, that has a question.
George H: Yeah, how this applies to any of b 2 b to C, so the end user might be using your platform or tool a lot. But does that actually have a consequence on the purchase? Yeah, the purchaser
George H: know that the business is purchasing the product.
Brad Schnitzer: Can you give me? What's what's your business again?
George H: Yeah, it's collab, like the AI concierge for the short term rentals. So the guests will be using our concierge a lot. But then how does that affect, for example, the operator who's actually purchasing the product.
Brad Schnitzer: Question. I. So
Brad Schnitzer: I think it. This is like a individual question, for every you know your business is unique in some sense, but I have to imagine and I own and operate the Airbnbs and and go through a property manager as well. And and you know, I think Neil and I had invested in a company in the past that sold into property managers, and ultimately, you know, it was used by their end consumer.
Brad Schnitzer: you know, for me, I you know, property. My property manager is super happy when their customers are really happy, right? Like the the
Brad Schnitzer: the Airbnb owners on their platform are super happy. So you guys have to understand, you know, that relationship? So I would treat it the same way in this case. You know
Brad Schnitzer: it's it's it. There's going to be an extra step in that to understand like how that activity is being translated back to the business customer, right? But ultimately. And and you could tell me if I'm wrong. But if your end consumers are loving the product, if they're the ones engaging with the product.
Brad Schnitzer: Is it the end consumer that's engaging with the product? Or is it the the business that engages with the product.
George H: The end user to the guest.
Brad Schnitzer: So the guests? Yeah, I mean you. I would. Ultimately, you know, I think this is a perfect job to be done. Exercise. But I would have to assume that the happier the end consumer is the happier the business customer is. So these are things honestly like you can still measure them the same way. But the additional step for you is communicating that value back to your business partner. Right? If you're able to share this information with them.
Brad Schnitzer: And and you know, if you had a baseline from them of what they were doing before. You know, they used your product. I think that's a huge selling point. Likely from a retention side, but also, like, you know, as you're selling to new customers. Right? If you have this data, you can, you know, find out or do you have access to that data from from the end customer? The guests.
George H: Yeah, we can see all of their interactions, questions, everything. Yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, I mean that to me, that's a super power. Like, if you have that data like, you should be able to find more customers that you can use, you know.
Brad Schnitzer: previous customers, and use case and continue to sell. But if if it's more nuanced for your business would love to to do some office hours and talk through it.
George H: Thank you.
Brad Schnitzer: Yep.
Brad Schnitzer: alright. So let's see how much time we have. I think we're good on time. So
Brad Schnitzer: let's see
Brad Schnitzer: if you guys are sitting in your teams. Hopefully.
Brad Schnitzer: you're sitting in your teams. I want you guys to think through and this is similar to the exercise I gave you yesterday is kind of like outside the box thinking. But I want you guys to think through what is one thing that's most likely to kill me, meaning my business right now, if I don't get it right.
Brad Schnitzer: So it's a little bit of backwards way of of thinking about this, but it. It usually highlights some important things in your business. So that's 1 question. And then where do I believe? Subject to testing? If I apply the most amount of effort. I'm going to get the best results. So somebody was starting to allude to levers in this group. So I'm curious from this group. If you guys take, you know, 5 or so minutes together, try to come up with.
Brad Schnitzer: you know, really quick again. Don't overthink it. Try to come up with answers to these questions. And and I'd love to hear, maybe from a couple of groups that want to volunteer. So it's
Brad Schnitzer: 27 on my side. 28 let's do 5 min, and I'll I'll call you guys back.
George H: So you guys can get up and meet with your team if you're not sitting. Okay?
George H: Oh, it's nice. Yeah.
George H: but it's
George H: keep them.
Brad Schnitzer: Let's do about one more minute.
Brad Schnitzer: How are we doing.
George H: Everybody. Good.
George H: Alright!
George H: Okay, bring it back, guys. Let's come back to your seats.
George H: Brought our attention.
George H: Okay, Brad.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, I I would love to hear from maybe one or 2 groups. If you kind of want to go through the one thing most likely to kill you right now, if you don't get it right. And where do you believe subject testing? Apply the most amount of effort, and you're going to get the best results anyone want to share.
George H: I think that's off. So I think. To your point, Brad, regarding like looking out of the front door, not looking at the back
George H: mirror and something that we are just getting reports because we know that it's gonna take a lot of calls and a lot of demos before we actually start booking any revenue. With still free revenue and in terms of
George H: you want to. Talk about once they're a customer as well. Just leave it, leave it there.
Brad Schnitzer: Okay, so
Brad Schnitzer: Do you know your your runway right now as a business, are you? Have you done that yet?
George H: We do. But we're we've kind of pivoted in the last couple of weeks. A couple of days should say, but yeah, we still have in terms of being able to service the business we still have. I believe, like 6, 6 or so months left.
George H: Okay, so we think we need to figure it out quickly.
George H: But they're we're moving to more of a b 2 b
George H: slightly out of mid size businesses. So the sales cycles a lot longer than our previous customer.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah. And this is, this is one of the most common ones. You're not alone, I think. And and I love this example, because
Brad Schnitzer: if you model out your burn rate, and then you also know
Brad Schnitzer: how long the sales cycle is. If you only have 6 months of runway, and it takes 8 months
Brad Schnitzer: to actually close a deal
Brad Schnitzer: you're likely gonna need to bring in some more capital or make some changes, or you're gonna be out of business right like
Brad Schnitzer: you'll you'll learn from Troy that,
Brad Schnitzer: you know, money is is oxygen to a business, right? So that's a great one. I think that's something that you can model out on the back of a napkin. But what I would do in your case is start figuring out what those activities are. If you haven't gotten to. If you are pre revenue, what is it gonna take to go from 0 to one you know, and start making some assumptions like, is it? Gonna take 200 phone calls to get.
Brad Schnitzer: you know, 10 phone calls for 1st calls to get
Brad Schnitzer: 3 demos to get one customer right like you need to start making those assumptions now. And they're going to be wrong, and they're going to get more and more right over time. But until you actually go out and make those early assumptions and do the testing, we don't know.
Brad Schnitzer: So yeah, I love that one. Do you? Wanna you share your your
Brad Schnitzer: your lever on the bottom.
George H: Yeah. So the level is actually around.
George H: once we once we get them on the demo, go through the white glove onboarding that's really tailored to their company, because the onboarding is pretty good, but we think if we can get the onboarding done right for them, the experience will be elevated, and they'll get a lot more out of the product and hopefully have a bit more stickiness as well, and come back and continue to use it daily.
George H: maybe just to add the way that our onboarding is set up. And this was actually to shine a light on Chloe, great feedback from her. That we can actually do really customized onboarding Demos really quickly. So giving them that extra hand holding so they can get the most out of the tool, we think. Well, okay.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, it it to me like the, you know, it's conjecture, because I don't know anything about your business. But to me
Brad Schnitzer: the fact that you highlighted that means that maybe there's something you can show a customer earlier in the funnel, because if it's that valuable and you have to wait until they've already signed on the dotted line.
Brad Schnitzer: it might help again with your retention metrics. But I wonder like if that's something you guys do exceptionally well as a team, and you knocked out of the park.
Brad Schnitzer: I wonder if you can, even maybe maybe it's it's showing the next next subsequent customer what you did for the previous customer, and what that you know. Attention to detail and customization looked like. So to me, you know, it makes sense to to highlight that if it's, it's really that valuable. And you guys do a great job of it. So maybe there's ways to to bring that earlier in the funnel.
George H: Brad, if I may, I just want to take it one step further here. So what I'm hearing you all mentioned about this is, you want to enhance your white glove customized onboarding experience for these Demos? Correct?
George H: Right? Yeah, that's right. So what? But how do we know? What can we measure based on that. But I'm trying to figure out what the actual input is to enhance the quality of those customized things.
George H: So what do you.
Brad Schnitzer: Great question.
George H: Like measuring what? What action activity based on that customization.
George H: Yeah, I think the key is getting social channels are set up. They can then create targeted personas and campaigns and then informative are actually posting regularly. So for us, that kind of Facebook key metric of suit the user would be once they've done 12 posts, it's showing that they've they've had enough time in the platform that they're then getting value out of
George H: those there are any inputs. So what I'm asking, though, is, what input, are you in control of? To influence that.
Brad Schnitzer: That you can quantify too.
George H: Yeah, I guess it's really
George H: hand holding them to get those initial posts set up. So when you change hold, let's talk about. So I'm hand holding. What am I doing
George H: as long as you're able to do? Yeah, you want to go? Yeah. And then from there the AI will scan their social scan, their website and set up
George H: for them their strategy and their social campaign. So the challenge that a lot of people have is, How do I get from there to actually
George H: scheduling the post, creating and scheduling.
George H: and that is where we need to to have a little bit of hand holding to get those posts created and set up for them. So what do you? What can you all do to get them to create those posts and schedule?
George H: Yeah, it's okay. So that's the question. So you don't have to answer now. But, like my, my challenge to all of you is to like, you have to think through those details
George H: sound up to say, if we customize their White Book experience, they're a lot more likely to like, you know. Convert. You have to then slow down time. Look at it really closely. Look at the little bits and go. Which of those bits can I? Actually.
George H: that's what we mean by levers like we want to pull this, and we know something's gonna come out of the conveyor belt. Right? That's a great question to bring to your eir meetings.
George H: That's something you can brainstorm with that
George H: both.
Brad Schnitzer: I think Neil's question highlights something really important here is when you guys are just a small team in your founding teams. Some of these things like a white glove. Treatment make sense to you right? But once you start to grow your team, and there's more folks on the team that are are a part of these Kpis. They're going to need those individual items to quantify, to know if they're actually doing a great job right? So it's not going to be obvious to to the next person under you.
Brad Schnitzer: Cool. So next steps as a team.
Brad Schnitzer: this is, this is my big assumption is, if you're not using Kpis on a weekly basis, you're setting yourself up for failure.
Brad Schnitzer: I think in the early days it feels
Brad Schnitzer: It feels shitty, measuring Kpis because things aren't going to work out right. You're going to put in all this effort.
Brad Schnitzer: All this activity, all this input
Brad Schnitzer: and the end result is not going to be what you want to see.
Brad Schnitzer: That's okay, like, that's what tech stars is for. That's what this community is for. This is what your classmates are for is helping you figure that out
Brad Schnitzer: and the teams that are willing to test of a ton of assumptions throw a bunch of shit on the wall
Brad Schnitzer: and actually
Brad Schnitzer: run those tests to see what actually gets them to the outcomes that they're looking for. Those are the ones that succeed the companies that take a problem and reduce it to a week's time
Brad Schnitzer: to actually figure it out
Brad Schnitzer: and continually do that over time. Those are the companies that accelerate quickly. Right? I've seen a lot of founders. I think we talked about yesterday founders that try to solve all their problems on their own sometimes they spend 2, 3, 4 weeks trying to solve a problem.
Brad Schnitzer: We need to be founders that are willing to ask for advice, ask for ideas, ask for things worth testing, and actually run those tests, run those experiments to see how we can get through
Brad Schnitzer: the plateau. So it's going to happen. The other thing I want to, just, you know, make a plea to this group, is.
Brad Schnitzer: you guys are all on your own journeys. I know you're all in the same class. But don't compare yourself to others. Because you're not all at the same starting point right? So like in week 2. And you are presenting your Kpis to the group and somebody's much further ahead. They're in a completely different market for the most case, selling to different customers. They have a whole different life experience. So do not start comparing yourself. You guys are running your own race
Brad Schnitzer: and help one another. It's it's not a bad thing to to help push each other along the lines. But what I see early on is maybe a company who's free revenue and and really feels like they don't have anything to measure. You always have things to measure, especially inputs.
Brad Schnitzer: I, yeah, yeah.
George H: Is that? Is it the question you asked earlier? Good. This is the perfect time.
George H: hey, Brad? So I asked this question earlier, and they said, Okay, wait, wait, for Brad comes on
George H: so I'm struggling with the idea of weekly kpis. Let me kind of give you a scenario. So let's say that that I and this is just a hypothetical. Let's say that one of my kpis that I care about is
George H: time on site, right? So minutes of recession.
George H: And I think that that's going to be a key engagement, Kpi, that matter. But I'm on the 2 week spread, or I've got. And so I I go to my Jtbd interviews and I find out the feature. That's gonna matter. That's gonna really write raise that number.
George H: But I'm 2 sprints away from it. And so I'm struggling to kind of understand, what am I measuring on a weekly basis when I'm waiting for a feature that's gonna actually increase that Kpi.
Brad Schnitzer: So you're talking about a product?
Brad Schnitzer: Kpi, right?
Brad Schnitzer: So.
Brad Schnitzer: or are you talking about site metrics? So are you saying, this is a site, and the one of the most important things to me in my business is how long the customer stays on the site.
George H: Yeah, so hypothetically. I know that engagement metrics matter.
George H: And so I have a I have an engagement. I have a I have a Kpi. That's an engagement. Api.
George H: Well, I can't move the needle on that Kpi on a weekly basis. Yeah, no way to do it. Dave's question earlier was, how do I present Kpis every week at techstars? If I don't feel like my Kpis are weekly Kpis. And we said, like, basically, there are ways to do it, and Brad can explain.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, I mean, what are you doing so like to me? I care more about like what you are doing as a team so like Neil will will likely talk about shape up. And you know, a a methodology for actually measuring progress on an engineering team. It's a little bit different than a lot of these like revenue based sales based.
Brad Schnitzer: You know, the build and the sell side are very much different. I would measure the actual activities that you guys are taking part of to actually get to that place along the sprint. Right? So to me, like.
Brad Schnitzer: how can you? Actually.
Brad Schnitzer: yeah, how can you break that down?
George H: Aren't those vanity Kpis, though. So like just play devil's advocate a little bit right? Yeah. Sales. And my, my vanity, Kpi, is how many leads I create. That's really a vanity, Kpi. Sure, I could tell you I'm doing a thousand kpi, but that we all know that that's Bs right compared to what really moved the needle which might actually take, for example, with agent scale. It's gonna take the big months.
George H: It might be a month between each significant meeting. That's gonna move to a close day. What are they measuring on a weekly basis? That's actually real. So so Dave, so tell talk to me about any given week. So so what is the goal? So what's the Api for time period.
George H: I mean on my on my talking about? So I just thought the hypothetical I gave was, I care about
George H: time per session
George H: on my on my side? Because because it measures engagement and engagement is what the investors. And what is time per session?
George H: Through my Jtb. Jtb. Interviews, I've discovered that there's a certain feature that I think that I'm going to bet on in order to increase. Okay, so are we trying to, what are we trying to measure here to determine progress?
George H: Cause? It sounds like it's something you need to develop. And then right sorry. So I'm on a 2 week sprint. It's gonna take me 2 weeks back, 2 sprints to actually get.
George H: And so that doesn't sound like it's important to measure as kpi. That sounds like something you can describe as like a goal, something you want to get done. Well, well, time perceptions are really important. Yeah. And your bet is that by building this feature you can influence time basis to say that I'm moving toward that goal. Exactly. It's it's it's a step function.
George H: So so I think a longer conversation has to happen to further break down what influences time for session current.
George H: Okay? So like that's it. I mean, we could talk about it as a group, but I think it might take a little longer. I have, like probably 5 or 6 more questions I'd ask you to get to the truth of what's going on, because your bet is that you want to build this product feature that will influence it. That's great. Doesn't feel like a Kpi.
George H: Maybe there are inputs that you're in your control of right now that can influence the time perception
George H: I can influence on a weekly basis. I don't know. I'm not sure. That's what I'm saying like it. It's probably somewhere in your head, and you just need to draw it out.
Brad Schnitzer: So you know.
George H: That hypothetical you just gave probably isn't a good basis for Kpi. Whatever.
Brad Schnitzer: So I think I could. I could share just just a story here, I think could be helpful. And and, by the way, I think what's cool about this is like we can get into the nuances of each individual business. But we had a founder in the program that it felt like they were doing a lot of busy work. They were working their ass off. But like, we couldn't really figure out why they weren't driving the business forward. For them. It took like us.
Brad Schnitzer: you know it. It wasn't, you know us pressuring them to work, you know. 50, 60, 70, 80 HA week. It was us starting with.
Brad Schnitzer: How are you spending your time? Walk me through how many hours a week you're currently working right
Brad Schnitzer: like, and and both of these founders were working about 50 HA week, so we had a hundred hours worth of work
Brad Schnitzer: in any given week that they were spending time on?
Brad Schnitzer: Were they spending time on activities that were driving the business forward? So back to this exercise, we just did, subject to testing, like, what is the the most valuable lever you can do right now?
Brad Schnitzer: With your time, and how you're spending that time. Is it actually leading in to those things that drive your business forward. So a lot of these product. Kpis, what I see early on happen in program with founders is they pick a Kpi, a product Api, and they kind of sometimes need to. Sometime, you know, pick these product Kpis, because there's really no sales process happening. That doesn't mean they can't start generating leads, and they can't start doing discovery calls. But
Brad Schnitzer: I I don't want you guys to pick Kpis that you end up having to change week over week. Right? Maybe there's a couple of weeks where you're you're really learning. And you find out, hey? You know, I need to adjust this Kpi.
Brad Schnitzer: think about Kpis that you're going to continually want to increase over time. Yup.
George H: I'm sorry. I just want to clarify what I'm I want to synthesize what I just heard you say, because I think it's really important it. It almost sounds like
George H: a K, an effective Kpi is a way to understand your effectiveness and performance on a week over week basis. Given your inputs. So as a founder team, what are you all doing every week to drive progress? And how are you effectively measuring?
George H: So it's a way to get the truth about your own individual respective efforts for different companies folds
George H: that makes sense. Okay, so for example, for these guys, right, they're going to create 100. They're gonna create 100 target target audience that they're going to go after, probably on a weekly basis. You want to know how many touch points they've done, or something along those lines. Those aren't real Kpis, but they're things that you can measure on a weekly basis if the touch points lead to more leads. That's not vanity at all. That's real effort.
George H: So the question is, is, and did I? I had 10 leads this week.
George H: My bet is that next week I'll have 12 leads if I do these actions.
George H: Dave. I think that I measure myself against those actions being taken. That's not mandated. That's real work right. And I guess the other point I wanted to make really, briefly, and then we can then respond.
George H: None of what we're asking you all to do should ever feel like it's something you're doing for us and not for you really, really clear like, if any of this feels like you're just satisfying us. Something's wrong, and we should talk about it because this should all be upside for you, because you have a better understanding. What's going on.
George H: Make sense.
George H: That's huge. Yeah. And, Dave, we should talk about it more offline because we only have 10 min. But I think you're confusing
George H: vanity metrics with like indirect metrics there, there are ones that literally, you don't do this, and like money goes into your bank. But you know that it's there's a difference there. Yeah, we have one more question. And then, Brad, I know you have only 10 min. We'll give it back to you.
George H: Hey, Brad? Yeah. Just thinking of like a primary metrics for product development. So can you get specific examples? I'm worried. I do. I'm doing, you know, research every week. But I can't tell like an investor be like I did 1 12 research. I wanted to in this like quarter like that's not a metric they want to see or makes any sense to them. So how do you kind of set that up to be, you know. Interesting. Not just saying I'm doing science essentially.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, so I mean it. It's tough. So are you guys also selling in your business right now.
George H: Yeah, so it's kind of both, right? We're trying to acquire customers and kind of, you know, improve our product over the next quarter.
George H: Yeah.
Brad Schnitzer: So
Brad Schnitzer: yeah, obviously, we put in in here. Can you guys see? When I go back into the
Brad Schnitzer: technical product accomplishments.
George H: Yeah. So is it okay, then, that the Kpi would not be exactly the same every week, right? Because we're like, we're slowly improving like we executed this this week that next week we're gonna execute that. And like. So there'll be, you know, Mini end goals like, I'm still building the product. But it's not gonna be
George H: the exact same Kpi, except that we're building our product. I think it can be very much like a dev script. I think you can think of it like that, like they don't write like, oh, we were implemented. This feature, this no, we hit our sprint goals, yes or no right like, and we're consistently hitting our sprint goals. That's how I think you should do it.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, I think I think shape up might be your best resource here to kind of dig deeper into like, how to actually quantify this, like the goal with your product development, Kpis is to again be intellectually honest with yourself and understanding how you're driving progress.
Brad Schnitzer: And you're actually, you know this. I I don't. I also don't think it's just like a pure means to the to the end. With this product, kpis, right like you might have a 2 week sprint. But there's an ultimate goal that ties into that ties back into like you are now able to to move forward on your sales. Kpis, right? So. I would love to to go offline with you and kind of talk one to one on that
Brad Schnitzer: But also ask Neil, I think. Shape up's free right, Neil.
George H: Okay. Brad.
Brad Schnitzer: Yeah, let's try to get to the last slide, because I know we only have a little bit of time.
Brad Schnitzer: Oh, here we go.
Brad Schnitzer: Can you guys? Okay.
Brad Schnitzer: this is, this is a big one. I want you guys, if you guys are taking notes, think about as a team as founders how you're going to embed Kpis into the everyday culture of your business early on you guys are are motivated. It's your baby.
Brad Schnitzer: But you know, as you bring people onto the team.
Brad Schnitzer: it's going to be hard to know at all times, especially when things are moving quickly, like.
Brad Schnitzer: where is the ship going like? What are we all focusing our efforts on?
Brad Schnitzer: We all have to wear a lot of hats.
Brad Schnitzer: What I what I know and what I've seen with companies is companies who have Kpis built into the culture of their business, and everybody's aware of the Kpis and everybody's driving towards those Kpis. Those are the ones where you get motivated team members, people that are all driving forward. They know what progress looks like. And the other thing is you don't have to be a micromanager that lets them know exactly what they need to do on a daily basis on an hour basis.
Brad Schnitzer: If you hire really great people
Brad Schnitzer: over time when they understand the kpis. This is where they can have creative freedom to kind of figure out and do some of these tests alongside the founders right to how to drive that business forward as you grow as you become more established business. It'll be more like a coin operator business like we've we've figured this out. Obviously, things are going to change in your business. But in these early days.
Brad Schnitzer: if everybody's aligned and you guys are creating Kpis or using Kpis as a part of your everyday culture? The CEO, and and we'll talk about it next. But the Cp. CEO likely should be leading
Brad Schnitzer: everything surrounding Kpis. But if everybody's a part of that process that's the early transparency that I think helps, build teams and and builds a culture that you guys wanna be a part of.
Brad Schnitzer: The next thing is, where do Kpis live? Is it easily accessible? Is this something that anyone on your team can easily find. And they understand what we're driving, trying to drive forward.
Brad Schnitzer: they're gonna they're gonna work people who join your team that aren't founders are gonna understand what you value, based on what you set as kpis in your business. So you know, again. There's lots of hats to be worn. There's people that do a lot of busy work that are running around. They finish a day and they're exhausted, and they did a lot of work. But
Brad Schnitzer: you always want your team to be able to go back
Brad Schnitzer: to the Kpis and say, Hey!
Brad Schnitzer: Was the majority of my activity today, driving our Kpis forward
Brad Schnitzer: again. Who on your team owns the tracking pro process for kpis. To me it should always be the CEO in the early days, you know. Maybe later it is. You know.
Brad Schnitzer: a coo Cfo that's that's also supporting. But early on know who's responsible for this. We've seen early early days with founders where they're all running around like crazy. And nobody truly owns the Kpi process. So I want you guys to be comfortable with yourselves and your team to know who's the owner of this?
Brad Schnitzer: again.
Brad Schnitzer: talk through your team on. What is the process for running experiments. Figure out how to move your kpis predictably, and and again the process for running experiments. When you hit a wall, because you will hit a wall. You'll have an assumption on how you're driving the business forward. And what actually, what are those secondary metrics, those 2 or 3 things sometimes they're not going to be the right things and you're gonna have to to, you know, test a lot of your assumptions
Brad Schnitzer: continually test things like, what is your actual process. Talk about that as a team when we miss our goal. And it's it's not, you know, it's not. If it's when we miss our goals. What is our actual process?
Brad Schnitzer: As a team for running experiments? Do we all get in a room? We put up our biggest assumptions on the whiteboard, we circle commonalities. And then we decide what tests we want to run and for what period of time? So how long do you guys? You know, run a test or an experiment before you move on to the next one. Right? So like, have those conversations as a team set those ground rules early.
Brad Schnitzer: Alright last one is, how often are you going to do deep dives on these numbers? You guys are going to feel like you're in your business you're so deep in it that you never really come out and come up for air and kind of evaluate things. So so
Brad Schnitzer: talk about as a team like, is it on a quarterly basis? Is it on a monthly basis that we're gonna kind of get together and talk more holistically about what our Kpis are. So that's something an exercise that you guys should do on a constant basis. Alright, I don't think we have time for QA. What I will offer is my email address,
Brad Schnitzer: I'm going to send you guys this deck. I'm going to send you a little bit more information. I have some examples. I have
Brad Schnitzer: common Kpis primary kpis that people use. Send me individual questions, too. I heard a couple of really good nuanced individual questions. I would love to go deep, especially the ones I saw 2 questions on product. Kpis you have. Neil, who's an engineer in the team that can probably touch on those better than I can. But I've dealt with product Kpis as well. So happy to to give my 2 cents there.
Brad Schnitzer: yeah, again, here's my email, if you guys need me. For the companies that sent me their 3 intros. If anyone else wants to do that, send them my way. Let's put that out into the ether. Let's try to get as many of those connections as possible.
Brad Schnitzer: If not, I will try to see you guys. I'm gonna try to visit the program once this year. So that's my goal to to come. See you guys in program. So hopefully, if you're in the Bay area, if you're staying in the Bay area, I'll be able to see you guys live so appreciate your time hopefully, you didn't get sick of me 2 days in a row. Enjoy your time with Troy. It will be time well spent.
George H: But that was awesome. Thank you for.
George H: Take care.
Brad Schnitzer: Guys, I gotta jump.
George H: We'll see you in the bay.
George H: So good to see you. Okay, let's stop the recording.
George H: I have a couple questions for.